# 10-29-2025-homestead_migrant_children
# Pitch
Homestead, Florida, houses the largest population of Guatemalan migrant children while holding the infamous legacy of one of the worst detention centers in America.
Guatemala accounts for roughly 46 percent of immigrant children in America – the largest portion among the 112 countries in data that the New York Times obtained from the U.S. Department of Health and Human services and published to GitHub. The highest concentration of Guatemalan children is in the 33030 zip code in Homestead, Florida.
In 2018, the average time Guatemalan children spent in detention centers in Homestead spiked from 28 to 59. At that time, the Homestead Temporary Shelter for Unaccompanied Children reopened its doors to thousands. The Air Force Reserve base was temporarily turned into a migrant children detention center, with reports of sexual assault, abuse and inhumane conditions.
The shelter was operated by Comprehensive Health Services under a $220 million contract with Health and Human Services. It was one of the first for-profit migrant shelters in America. Despite losing nearly $1.2 million daily, the government contract paid a fixed and daily rate, as long as beds stayed full. Beds remained full for an average of 59 days, on par with the national rate of 60 days.
After the shelter’s closing in 2019, the time children spent in migrant shelters drastically decreased – 23 days in comparison to the previous 59. Initially these findings were attributed to the detention center, but after further analysis the trend in Homestead closely follows the results for children of all ethnicities nationwide. 
In 2018, President Donald Trump passed an executive order to end the separation of immigrant families while implementing a “zero tolerance” policy that prosecuted all adults caught crossing the border illegally to reduce processing times. This resulted in the separation of families, forcing children to be classified as unaccompanied minors and placed under the care of the Department of Homeland Security.
While separated children were unable to be released to their detained parents, many instead went to unrelated sponsors – whose detention times in 2018 mirrored the national average. However, children released to family members spent an average of over 100 days processing through the system.
To find significance in such a large dataset, it was necessary to filter the variables to . Guatemalan children accounting for nearly half of all children migrants was the first piece that led to these findings. From there 
Inspired by the New York Times’ piece titled “U.S. Failed to Safeguard Migrant Children,” this story aims to uncover the layers of neglect that took place in Homestead, Florida, through a blend of data analysis and the voices of those affected. 

# Methods
This analysis primarily relies on the New York Times data set on unaccompanied migrant children (2012-2023), which includes information on the child's country of origin, time spent processing through detention centers, sponsor zipcode and sponsor relationship. This data was combined with the U.S. Census Bureau’s American Community Survey 5-year estimates (2018) at the zip code tabulation (ZCTA) level. Each graphic design used a multitude of data frames and methods.
For the map, ACS 2018 data were filtered to the ZCTA level, then narrowed to Florida  ZIP codes that had unaccompanied Guatemalan migrant children. The dataset “zip_fl” was left-joined with “kids_by_zip” by zip code and filtered to only include data from 2018. The data was then mapped by Florida zip codes at a rate per 100,000 population. Non-applicable values were cleared, and Florida zip codes were shaded in green, with darker hues representing higher concentrations of children. 
To reproduce this analysis, the following files are required: Code was executed in R.4.4.1, with full reproducibility ensured by following the R Markdowns and knitted files.

# Limitations
There was a lack of evidence to substantiate any claims beyond the minimal data collected. For the topic, it was an amazing data set, but it doesn't allow for further examination of the data, or the collection of specific human stories. The story can only be told through numbers and theories.
